# About Taproot
Thoughts about what Taproot is meant to be. These will be refined and added to as we go.

### Taproot is a handbook, not an encyclopedia
The main focus is information about how to do things rather than about things. Since the site and its users have a goal in mind, certain design opportunities are opened up such as gamification and the creation of specialized tools to help users make decisions or achieve a goal.

### Getting past the collaborative book paradigm
Traditional wikis are based on books. The main difference is that they are collaboratively written and their pages are interlinked. They are repositories of knowledge, designed to be expansive, inclusive, and searchable (i.e. good for people who know exactly what they’re looking for). The pages of Wikipedia, for example, are so interlinked that it has become possible to discover new things just by following links, but the pages themselves do very little to offer a pedagogically tailored experience for the user. The fundamental idea of Wikipedia, and I think of many wikis, is to have each page contain all available information on the subject to which it pertains and be organized into different headings. The fundamental idea of Taproot is to look for designs that make it as easy as possible for users to increase their proficiency at gardening. This includes taking _active_ approaches to serving information (i.e. by taking specific kinds of user input to narrow down the relevant information). There is such a thing as information overload under Taproot’s paradigm because it prioritizes effectiveness over expansiveness. This allows us to make different decisions about the way information is presented on a page. Information need not be static as if it were on pages of an interlinked, digital book of some kind, but can be shuffled around and assembled in different ways to suit the needs of different users.

### User-generated content
The content of Taproot needs to be editable by users. This is important for practical reasons (we can’t write it all ourselves) and for other reasons (we want to create a community). We might, however, want to explore other options for collecting this content besides the standard "edit markup" → "moderator review" → "publish" model. We could, for example, have users generate small tutorial pages which could be ranked by the community and be promoted on the site accordingly or we could have users rate their experience using certain techniques without having to edit any markup. Our domain-specific focus (i.e. gardening & food production) may warrant more specialized kinds of user-generated content. It could be more of a social or community-oriented platform than a traditional wiki (think: mix of Reddit and Wikipedia). 